---
title: "Train XGBoost on Copick Data with Cross-Validation"
date: 2024-10-22T13:11:22.178780
catalog: "cellcanvas"
group: "copick"
name: "train-model-xgboost-copick"
version: "0.0.2"
catalog_url: "https://github.com/cellcanvas/album-catalog.git"
description: "A solution that processes Copick runs, filters runs with only one label, and trains an XGBoost model with 10-fold cross-validation."
authors: ["Kyle Harrington"]
license: "MIT"
tags: ["xgboost", "machine learning", "segmentation", "training", "cross-validation", "copick"]
---

A solution that processes Copick runs, filters runs with only one label, and trains an XGBoost model with 10-fold cross-validation.

## Arguments

- **copick_config_path** (string): Path to the Copick configuration JSON file.
- **painting_segmentation_names** (string): Comma-separated list of names for the painting segmentations. Rightmost segmentation has highest precedence.
- **session_id** (string): Session ID for the segmentation.
- **user_id** (string): User ID for segmentation creation.
- **voxel_spacing** (float): Voxel spacing used to scale pick locations.
- **tomo_type** (string): Tomogram type to use for each tomogram, e.g. denoised.
- **feature_types** (string): Comma-separated list of feature types to use for each tomogram, e.g. cellcanvas01,cellcanvas02.
- **run_names** (string): Comma-separated list of run names to process. If not provided, all runs will be processed.
- **eta** (float): Step size shrinkage used in update to prevents overfitting.
- **gamma** (float): Minimum loss reduction required to make a further partition on a leaf node of the tree.
- **max_depth** (integer): The maximum depth of the trees.
- **min_child_weight** (float): Minimum sum of instance weight needed in a child.
- **max_delta_step** (float): Maximum delta step we allow each leaf output to be.
- **subsample** (float): Subsample ratio of the training instances.
- **colsample_bytree** (float): Subsample ratio of columns when constructing each tree.
- **reg_lambda** (float): L2 regularization term on weights.
- **reg_alpha** (float): L1 regularization term on wights.
- **max_bin** (integer): Maximum number of discrete bins to bucket continuous features.
- **class_weights** (string): Class weights for the XGBoost model as a comma-separated list.
- **output_model_path** (string): Path for the output joblib file containing the trained XGBoost model.

